MIGRATION_README.md, before:

# Database Migration Required

## Issues Fixed

This update fixes two critical bugs preventing inquiries from being saved and displayed:

### Bug #1: Database Query Mismatch
**Problem**: Inquiries were saved with `club = "demo"` but the API queried for `club = "theisland"`
**Impact**: Inquiries were saved to database but not visible in dashboard
**Fix**: Changed API query to use `DATABASE_CLUB_ID` instead of `DEFAULT_COURSE_ID`

### Bug #2: Invalid Status Constraint
**Problem**: Database only allowed status values: `'provisional', 'confirmed', 'cancelled', 'completed'`
**Impact**: INSERT statements failed with constraint violations because code uses: `'Processing', 'Inquiry', 'Requested', 'Confirmed'`
**Fix**: Updated schema constraint to accept all status values

## Required Actions

### 1. Check Current Status Values (Optional but Recommended)

First, check what status values currently exist in your database:

```bash
psql $DATABASE_URL -f check_current_status_values.sql
```

This will show you what data exists before migration.

### 2. Run Database Migration

Connect to your production PostgreSQL database and run:

```bash
psql $DATABASE_URL -f migration_fix_status_constraint.sql
```

This migration script will:
1. Show current status values in the database
2. Update any lowercase status values to capitalized versions
3. Drop the old constraint
4. Add the new constraint with all valid status values
5. Verify the migration succeeded

**What it does:**
- `'provisional'` → `'Provisional'`
- `'confirmed'` → `'Confirmed'`
- `'cancelled'` → `'Cancelled'`
- `'completed'` → `'Completed'`

Then adds support for new status values:
- `'Processing'` - Temporary while checking availability
- `'Inquiry'` - Initial inquiry with available times sent
- `'Requested'` - Customer requested specific booking

### 3. Deploy Updated Code

The following files have been updated:
- `island_email_bot.py` - Fixed database queries to use correct club ID
- `schema.sql` - Updated for new installations
- `migration_fix_status_constraint.sql` - Migration for existing databases

### 4. Verify Fix

After deploying:

1. Send a test email to: `clubname@bookings.teemail.io`
2. Check application logs for successful save: `✅ BOOKING SAVED`
3. Verify inquiry appears in dashboard with status "Inquiry"
4. Confirm email with tee times is sent to customer

## Status Value Meanings

The system now supports these status values:

**Current Flow (New System):**
- **Processing** - Temporary status while checking availability (< 2 seconds)
- **Inquiry** - Initial inquiry received, available times sent
- **Requested** - Customer clicked "Book Now" and requested specific time
- **Confirmed** - Staff manually confirmed the booking

**Legacy Status Values (Preserved):**
- **Booked** - Legacy booked status
- **Pending** - Legacy pending confirmation
- **Rejected** - Legacy rejected booking
- **Provisional** - Provisional booking (not yet confirmed)
- **Cancelled** - Booking was cancelled
- **Completed** - Booking is complete

## Environment Variables

Ensure these are set correctly in Render:

```
DATABASE_CLUB_ID=demo          # For database filtering (dashboard multi-tenancy)
DEFAULT_COURSE_ID=theisland    # For Core API calls (course identifier)
```

These serve different purposes:
- `DATABASE_CLUB_ID` - Used for database queries and multi-tenant filtering
- `DEFAULT_COURSE_ID` - Used for Core API to specify which course to check

Commit message:

Add backwards compatibility for lowercase status values
Changes:
- schema.sql: Accept BOTH uppercase and lowercase status values
  - 'Confirmed' and 'confirmed' are both valid
  - 'Booked' and 'booked' are both valid
  - etc.

- migration_fix_status_constraint.sql: No longer updates existing rows
  - Both uppercase and lowercase are now valid in the constraint
  - Old code using lowercase values will continue to work

- MIGRATION_README.md: Document backwards compatibility approach

This ensures that any existing codebases using lowercase status values
will continue to work without requiring updates. The new code uses
uppercase (preferred), but lowercase is still supported.

MIGRATION_README.md, after:

# Database Migration Required

## Issues Fixed

This update fixes two critical bugs preventing inquiries from being saved and displayed:

### Bug #1: Database Query Mismatch
**Problem**: Inquiries were saved with `club = "demo"` but the API queried for `club = "theisland"`
**Impact**: Inquiries were saved to database but not visible in dashboard
**Fix**: Changed API query to use `DATABASE_CLUB_ID` instead of `DEFAULT_COURSE_ID`

### Bug #2: Invalid Status Constraint
**Problem**: Database only allowed status values: `'provisional', 'confirmed', 'cancelled', 'completed'`
**Impact**: INSERT statements failed with constraint violations because code uses: `'Processing', 'Inquiry', 'Requested', 'Confirmed'`
**Fix**: Updated schema constraint to accept all status values (BOTH uppercase and lowercase for backwards compatibility)

## Required Actions

### 1. Check Current Status Values (Optional but Recommended)

First, check what status values currently exist in your database:

```bash
psql $DATABASE_URL -f check_current_status_values.sql
```

This will show you what data exists before migration.

### 2. Run Database Migration

Connect to your production PostgreSQL database and run:

```bash
psql $DATABASE_URL -f migration_fix_status_constraint.sql
```

This migration script will:
1. Show current status values in the database
2. Drop the old constraint
3. Add the new constraint accepting BOTH uppercase and lowercase status values
4. Verify the migration succeeded

**Backwards Compatibility:**
The new constraint accepts **both uppercase AND lowercase** status values:
- ✅ `'Confirmed'` (preferred, used by new code)
- ✅ `'confirmed'` (legacy, for backwards compatibility)
- ✅ `'Booked'`, `'booked'`
- ✅ `'Pending'`, `'pending'`
- etc.

This means **old code using lowercase values will continue to work** without any changes!

### 3. Deploy Updated Code

The following files have been updated:
- `island_email_bot.py` - Fixed database queries to use correct club ID
- `schema.sql` - Updated for new installations
- `migration_fix_status_constraint.sql` - Migration for existing databases

### 4. Verify Fix

After deploying:

1. Send a test email to: `clubname@bookings.teemail.io`
2. Check application logs for successful save: `✅ BOOKING SAVED`
3. Verify inquiry appears in dashboard with status "Inquiry"
4. Confirm email with tee times is sent to customer

## Status Value Meanings

The system now supports these status values:

**Current Flow (New System - Uppercase Preferred):**
- **Processing** - Temporary status while checking availability (< 2 seconds)
- **Inquiry** - Initial inquiry received, available times sent
- **Requested** - Customer clicked "Book Now" and requested specific time
- **Confirmed** - Staff manually confirmed the booking

**Legacy Status Values (Preserved):**
- **Booked** - Legacy booked status
- **Pending** - Legacy pending confirmation
- **Rejected** - Legacy rejected booking
- **Provisional** - Provisional booking (not yet confirmed)
- **Cancelled** - Booking was cancelled
- **Completed** - Booking is complete

**Note:** All status values accept both uppercase and lowercase for backwards compatibility. For example, both `'Confirmed'` and `'confirmed'` are valid. This ensures old codebases continue to work without modifications.

## Environment Variables

Ensure these are set correctly in Render:

```
DATABASE_CLUB_ID=demo          # For database filtering (dashboard multi-tenancy)
DEFAULT_COURSE_ID=theisland    # For Core API calls (course identifier)
```

These serve different purposes:
- `DATABASE_CLUB_ID` - Used for database queries and multi-tenant filtering
- `DEFAULT_COURSE_ID` - Used for Core API to specify which course to check
