STRIPE_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Stripe Payment Integration Guide

This document explains how the Stripe payment integration works for the golf booking system.

## Overview

The booking system now supports automatic payment processing via Stripe. When customers receive available tee times via email, they can click "Book Now" to pay immediately and receive instant confirmation.

## Flow Diagram

```
1. Customer emails inquiry
   ↓
2. System checks availability
   ↓
3. Customer receives email with available times
   ↓
4. Customer clicks "Book Now" button
   ↓
5. Redirected to /book endpoint
   ↓
6. System creates Stripe checkout session
   ↓
7. Customer redirected to Stripe payment page
   ↓
8. Customer completes payment
   ↓
9. Stripe webhook notifies system (/webhook/stripe)
   ↓
10. System updates booking status to "Confirmed"
   ↓
11. System sends confirmation email
   ↓
12. Booking appears as "Confirmed" in dashboard
```

## Key Components

### 1. Environment Variables

Required Stripe configuration in `.env`:

```bash
# Stripe API Keys (from https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys)
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_... or sk_live_...
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

# Success/Cancel URLs
STRIPE_SUCCESS_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-success
STRIPE_CANCEL_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-cancelled

# Booking App URL (your Flask app URL)
BOOKING_APP_URL=https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com
```

### 2. API Endpoints

#### `/book` (GET)
Simple redirect endpoint for email buttons.

**Parameters:**
- `booking_id` - Unique booking identifier
- `date` - Booking date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `time` - Tee time (HH:MM)
- `players` - Number of players
- `email` - Customer email

**Behavior:**
1. Creates Stripe checkout session with booking details
2. Redirects customer to Stripe payment page
3. Pre-fills customer email
4. Includes booking metadata

**Example:**
```
https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com/book?booking_id=ISL-20251209-8C9409B7&date=2025-12-15&time=10:30&players=4&email=customer@example.com
```

#### `/api/create-checkout-session` (POST)
Programmatic checkout session creation.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "booking_id": "ISL-20251209-8C9409B7",
  "date": "2025-12-15",
  "tee_time": "10:30",
  "players": 4,
  "total": 1300.00,
  "guest_email": "customer@example.com"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "sessionId": "cs_test_...",
  "url": "https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay/cs_test_..."
}
```

#### `/webhook/stripe` (POST)
Stripe webhook handler for payment events.

**Handles Events:**
- `checkout.session.completed` - Payment checkout completed (instant for cards, pending for Direct Debit)
- `charge.succeeded` - Direct Debit payment cleared (3-5 days after checkout for SEPA/BACS)
- `charge.failed` - Payment failed (logged for monitoring)

**Actions on checkout.session.completed:**

*For Card Payments:*
1. Extracts booking data from session metadata
2. Updates booking status to "Confirmed"
3. Adds payment note with Stripe session ID
4. Sends confirmation email to customer

*For Direct Debit Payments (SEPA or BACS):*
1. Extracts booking data from session metadata
2. Detects payment method (SEPA or BACS)
3. Updates booking status to "Pending SEPA" or "Pending BACS"
4. Adds payment note indicating pending status
5. Sends "pending confirmation" email to customer

**Actions on charge.succeeded (Direct Debit only):**
1. Retrieves original booking details from payment intent metadata
2. Detects payment method (SEPA or BACS)
3. Updates booking status to "Confirmed"
4. Adds payment note indicating Direct Debit cleared
5. Sends final confirmation email to customer

### 3. Booking Link Generation

The `build_booking_link()` function automatically detects if Stripe is configured:

**With Stripe:**
```python
https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com/book?booking_id=ISL-...&date=2025-12-15&time=10:30&players=4&email=customer@example.com
```

**Without Stripe (fallback):**
```
mailto:clubname@bookings.teemail.io?subject=BOOKING REQUEST...
```

### 4. Email Templates

The inquiry email automatically shows different instructions based on Stripe configuration:

**With Stripe:**
- Step 1: Click "Book Now" for your preferred time
- Step 2: Complete your payment securely via Stripe
- Step 3: Receive instant confirmation via email

**Without Stripe:**
- Step 1: Click "Book Now" for your preferred time
- Step 2: Your email client will open with booking details
- Step 3: Send the email to request your tee time

### 5. Confirmation Email

When payment succeeds, customers receive an automatic confirmation email with:

- Payment confirmation badge
- Booking details (ID, date, time, players)
- Amount paid
- What's next instructions
- Cancellation policy

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Create Stripe Account

1. Sign up at https://stripe.com
2. Complete account verification
3. Get API keys from https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

Add to your `.env` file or deployment platform (Render.com):

```bash
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_your_key_here
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_your_secret_here
STRIPE_SUCCESS_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-success
STRIPE_CANCEL_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-cancelled
BOOKING_APP_URL=https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com
```

### 3. Set Up Stripe Webhook

1. Go to https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks
2. Click "Add endpoint"
3. Enter URL: `https://your-app-url.onrender.com/webhook/stripe`
4. Select events to listen to:
   - ✅ `checkout.session.completed` (required - handles card and Direct Debit checkouts)
   - ✅ `charge.succeeded` (required for Direct Debit - notifies when payment clears)
   - ✅ `charge.failed` (optional - logs failed payments)
5. Copy webhook signing secret to `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`

**Important:** You must add `charge.succeeded` event to receive notifications when Direct Debit payments (SEPA/BACS) clear (3-5 days after checkout).

### 4. Create Success/Cancel Pages

Create simple HTML pages at:
- `https://theisland.ie/booking-success` - Thank you page
- `https://theisland.ie/booking-cancelled` - Booking cancelled page

### 5. Test the Integration

#### Test Mode (Recommended First)

1. Use test API keys (start with `sk_test_`)
2. Use test card: `4242 4242 4242 4242`
3. Any future expiry date
4. Any 3-digit CVC

#### Live Mode

1. Switch to live API keys (start with `sk_live_`)
2. Update webhook URL to live endpoint
3. Real cards will be charged

## Database Changes

The webhook handler updates bookings with:

```python
{
  'status': 'Confirmed',
  'note': 'Payment confirmed via Stripe on 2025-12-10 14:30:00
           Amount paid: €1300.00
           Stripe Session ID: cs_test_...'
}
```

## Dashboard Integration

Bookings appear in the dashboard with:
- Status: "Confirmed" (green badge)
- Note includes payment details and Stripe session ID
- No manual confirmation needed

## Troubleshooting

### Webhook Not Working

1. Check webhook URL is correct
2. Verify `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` is set
3. Check Stripe dashboard for webhook delivery attempts
4. Review app logs for errors

### Payment Not Updating Booking

1. Check booking_id exists in database
2. Verify `update_booking_in_db()` is working
3. Check metadata is passed correctly to Stripe
4. Review webhook event payload in Stripe dashboard

### Email Not Sending

1. Verify SendGrid API key is valid
2. Check email address is verified in SendGrid
3. Review app logs for SendGrid errors
4. Check spam folder

## Security Considerations

1. **Webhook Signature Verification**: Always set `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` for production
2. **SSL Required**: Stripe requires HTTPS for webhooks
3. **API Key Protection**: Never commit API keys to git
4. **Test Mode First**: Always test with test keys before going live

## Payment Methods

The system now supports three payment methods:

### 1. Card Payments (Instant)
- **Processing**: Instant confirmation
- **Status**: Booking immediately confirmed
- **Email**: Instant confirmation email sent
- **Fees**: 1.4% + €0.25 per transaction
- **Requirements**: Any valid credit/debit card

### 2. SEPA Direct Debit (3-5 days) - RECOMMENDED for Europe
- **Processing**: 3-5 business days to clear
- **Status**: "Pending SEPA" → "Confirmed" (after clearing)
- **Emails**:
  - Initial: "Payment Pending" email sent immediately
  - Final: "Payment Confirmed" email sent after clearing
- **Fees**: 0.8% (capped at €2.00)
- **Requirements**: European bank account (SEPA zone)
- **Coverage**: All 36 SEPA countries including Ireland

### 3. BACS Direct Debit (3-5 days) - For UK customers
- **Processing**: 3-5 business days to clear
- **Status**: "Pending BACS" → "Confirmed" (after clearing)
- **Emails**:
  - Initial: "Payment Pending" email sent immediately
  - Final: "Payment Confirmed" email sent after clearing
- **Fees**: 0.8% (capped at €2.00)
- **Requirements**: UK bank account required

## Cost Breakdown

### Stripe Fees (Ireland)

#### Card Payments
- **Fee**: 1.4% + €0.25 per transaction
- **Example**: €1,300 booking = €18.45 + €0.25 = **€18.70 fee**
- **Net**: €1,281.30

#### Direct Debit - SEPA/BACS (NEW - Much Cheaper!)
- **Fee**: 0.8% (capped at €2.00)
- **Example**: €1,300 booking = 0.8% = **€2.00 fee** (capped)
- **Net**: €1,298.00
- **Savings**: **€16.70 per booking vs card!**
- **Note**: Same low fee for both SEPA (Europe) and BACS (UK)

### Fee Comparison Table

| Booking Amount | Card Fee | Direct Debit Fee (SEPA/BACS) | Savings |
|----------------|----------|------------------------------|---------|
| €100 | €1.65 | €0.80 | €0.85 |
| €200 | €3.05 | €1.60 | €1.45 |
| €500 | €7.25 | €2.00 | €5.25 |
| €1,000 | €14.25 | €2.00 | €12.25 |
| €1,300 | €18.70 | €2.00 | €16.70 |

## Support

### Stripe Dashboard
- View payments: https://dashboard.stripe.com/payments
- View webhooks: https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks
- View customers: https://dashboard.stripe.com/customers
- View logs: https://dashboard.stripe.com/logs

### Testing Resources
- Test cards: https://stripe.com/docs/testing
- Webhook testing: https://stripe.com/docs/webhooks/test

## Direct Debit Payment Details (SEPA & BACS)

### What are SEPA and BACS?

**SEPA (Single Euro Payments Area)** is a European payment integration initiative that makes bank transfers across the Eurozone as easy as domestic transfers. SEPA covers 36 countries including Ireland and all EU member states.

**BACS (Bankers' Automated Clearing Services)** is a UK-based electronic payment system for direct debits and credits, primarily used in the United Kingdom.

Both payment methods work the same way and have the same low fees (0.8% capped at €2.00).

### Direct Debit Payment Flow

1. **Customer Checkout** (Day 0)
   - Customer selects Direct Debit at checkout (SEPA or BACS)
   - Provides bank account details (IBAN for SEPA, sort code/account for BACS)
   - Receives "Payment Pending" email
   - Booking status: "Pending SEPA" or "Pending BACS"

2. **Processing** (Days 1-5)
   - Payment being processed by banking system
   - Typical clearing time: 3-5 business days
   - Tee time is reserved during this period

3. **Payment Clears** (Day 3-5)
   - Stripe webhook fires `charge.succeeded`
   - System updates booking to "Confirmed"
   - Customer receives "Payment Confirmed" email
   - Booking status: "Confirmed"

### Direct Debit Advantages
- ✅ **Much cheaper fees**: 0.8% vs 1.4% + €0.25 for cards
- ✅ **Capped at €2.00**: Large bookings save the most
- ✅ **Secure**: Protected by Direct Debit Guarantee
- ✅ **Lower barrier**: No need for credit card
- ✅ **Wide coverage**: SEPA covers 36 European countries

### Direct Debit Considerations
- ⚠️ **3-5 day clearing time**: Not instant like cards
- ⚠️ **Geographic requirements**:
  - SEPA: Requires European bank account (SEPA zone)
  - BACS: Requires UK bank account
- ⚠️ **Can be disputed**: Customers have up to 8 weeks to dispute
- ⚠️ **Requires webhook handling**: Must handle `charge.succeeded` event

### Dashboard Status Indicators

Your booking dashboard will now show different statuses:

- **Confirmed** (Card - Instant) - Green badge, payment received immediately
- **Pending SEPA** (SEPA - Day 0-5) - Orange badge, payment processing
- **Pending BACS** (BACS - Day 0-5) - Orange badge, payment processing
- **Confirmed** (Direct Debit - After clearing) - Green badge, payment cleared

### Email Templates

The system sends different emails based on payment method:

#### Card Payment (Instant)
- **Subject**: "✅ Payment Confirmed - Booking [ID]"
- **Sent**: Immediately after checkout
- **Content**: Full confirmation with booking details

#### Direct Debit Payment (Pending)
- **Subject**: "⏳ Booking Request Received - [ID]"
- **Sent**: Immediately after checkout
- **Content**: Payment pending notice, 3-5 day timeline
- **Note**: Email mentions SEPA or BACS based on payment method chosen

#### Direct Debit Payment (Cleared)
- **Subject**: "✅ Payment Confirmed (SEPA/BACS Cleared) - [ID]"
- **Sent**: When payment clears (3-5 days later)
- **Content**: Full confirmation with booking details
- **Note**: Email mentions SEPA or BACS based on payment method chosen

### Testing Direct Debit Payments

Stripe provides test account numbers for both methods:

**SEPA Test Account (Success)**
- IBAN: `DE89370400440532013000`
- Account Holder Name: Any name

**BACS Test Account (Success)**
- Sort Code: `108800`
- Account Number: `00012345`
- Account Holder Name: Any name

**BACS Test Account (Failure)**
- Sort Code: `108800`
- Account Number: `00012346`
- Account Holder Name: Any name

In test mode, both SEPA and BACS payments clear almost instantly instead of 3-5 days, allowing you to test the full flow quickly.

## Fallback Behavior

If Stripe is not configured (no `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`):
- System falls back to mailto links
- Old booking request flow still works
- No payment processing
- Manual confirmation required

This ensures the system works with or without Stripe.

Commit message:

Add graceful fallback for BACS/SEPA when not enabled
Fix for error: "payment method type provided: bacs_debit is invalid"

Changes:
- Wrap checkout session creation in try-except block
- Catch InvalidRequestError for disabled payment methods
- Automatically fall back to card-only if BACS/SEPA not enabled
- Log warning with activation link when fallback occurs
- Update documentation with clear activation instructions
- Mark SEPA/BACS as requiring activation in payment methods list

How it works:
1. First tries to create session with [card, bacs_debit, sepa_debit]
2. If Stripe returns error about BACS/SEPA not being enabled:
   - Logs warning: "BACS/SEPA not enabled, falling back to card-only"
   - Retries with [card] only
   - No customer-facing errors
3. Once BACS/SEPA are enabled in Stripe dashboard, automatically starts using them

Activation instructions added to documentation:
- Go to https://dashboard.stripe.com/account/payments/settings
- Enable "SEPA Direct Debit" and "BACS Direct Debit"
- Stripe may require 1-2 days for business verification
- System works during approval process (card-only until approved)

This ensures the system works immediately even before Direct Debit is enabled.

STRIPE_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Stripe Payment Integration Guide

This document explains how the Stripe payment integration works for the golf booking system.

## Overview

The booking system now supports automatic payment processing via Stripe. When customers receive available tee times via email, they can click "Book Now" to pay immediately and receive instant confirmation.

## Flow Diagram

```
1. Customer emails inquiry
   ↓
2. System checks availability
   ↓
3. Customer receives email with available times
   ↓
4. Customer clicks "Book Now" button
   ↓
5. Redirected to /book endpoint
   ↓
6. System creates Stripe checkout session
   ↓
7. Customer redirected to Stripe payment page
   ↓
8. Customer completes payment
   ↓
9. Stripe webhook notifies system (/webhook/stripe)
   ↓
10. System updates booking status to "Confirmed"
   ↓
11. System sends confirmation email
   ↓
12. Booking appears as "Confirmed" in dashboard
```

## Key Components

### 1. Environment Variables

Required Stripe configuration in `.env`:

```bash
# Stripe API Keys (from https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys)
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_... or sk_live_...
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

# Success/Cancel URLs
STRIPE_SUCCESS_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-success
STRIPE_CANCEL_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-cancelled

# Booking App URL (your Flask app URL)
BOOKING_APP_URL=https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com
```

### 2. API Endpoints

#### `/book` (GET)
Simple redirect endpoint for email buttons.

**Parameters:**
- `booking_id` - Unique booking identifier
- `date` - Booking date (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `time` - Tee time (HH:MM)
- `players` - Number of players
- `email` - Customer email

**Behavior:**
1. Creates Stripe checkout session with booking details
2. Redirects customer to Stripe payment page
3. Pre-fills customer email
4. Includes booking metadata

**Example:**
```
https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com/book?booking_id=ISL-20251209-8C9409B7&date=2025-12-15&time=10:30&players=4&email=customer@example.com
```

#### `/api/create-checkout-session` (POST)
Programmatic checkout session creation.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "booking_id": "ISL-20251209-8C9409B7",
  "date": "2025-12-15",
  "tee_time": "10:30",
  "players": 4,
  "total": 1300.00,
  "guest_email": "customer@example.com"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "sessionId": "cs_test_...",
  "url": "https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay/cs_test_..."
}
```

#### `/webhook/stripe` (POST)
Stripe webhook handler for payment events.

**Handles Events:**
- `checkout.session.completed` - Payment checkout completed (instant for cards, pending for Direct Debit)
- `charge.succeeded` - Direct Debit payment cleared (3-5 days after checkout for SEPA/BACS)
- `charge.failed` - Payment failed (logged for monitoring)

**Actions on checkout.session.completed:**

*For Card Payments:*
1. Extracts booking data from session metadata
2. Updates booking status to "Confirmed"
3. Adds payment note with Stripe session ID
4. Sends confirmation email to customer

*For Direct Debit Payments (SEPA or BACS):*
1. Extracts booking data from session metadata
2. Detects payment method (SEPA or BACS)
3. Updates booking status to "Pending SEPA" or "Pending BACS"
4. Adds payment note indicating pending status
5. Sends "pending confirmation" email to customer

**Actions on charge.succeeded (Direct Debit only):**
1. Retrieves original booking details from payment intent metadata
2. Detects payment method (SEPA or BACS)
3. Updates booking status to "Confirmed"
4. Adds payment note indicating Direct Debit cleared
5. Sends final confirmation email to customer

### 3. Booking Link Generation

The `build_booking_link()` function automatically detects if Stripe is configured:

**With Stripe:**
```python
https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com/book?booking_id=ISL-...&date=2025-12-15&time=10:30&players=4&email=customer@example.com
```

**Without Stripe (fallback):**
```
mailto:clubname@bookings.teemail.io?subject=BOOKING REQUEST...
```

### 4. Email Templates

The inquiry email automatically shows different instructions based on Stripe configuration:

**With Stripe:**
- Step 1: Click "Book Now" for your preferred time
- Step 2: Complete your payment securely via Stripe
- Step 3: Receive instant confirmation via email

**Without Stripe:**
- Step 1: Click "Book Now" for your preferred time
- Step 2: Your email client will open with booking details
- Step 3: Send the email to request your tee time

### 5. Confirmation Email

When payment succeeds, customers receive an automatic confirmation email with:

- Payment confirmation badge
- Booking details (ID, date, time, players)
- Amount paid
- What's next instructions
- Cancellation policy

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Create Stripe Account

1. Sign up at https://stripe.com
2. Complete account verification
3. Get API keys from https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

Add to your `.env` file or deployment platform (Render.com):

```bash
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_your_key_here
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_your_secret_here
STRIPE_SUCCESS_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-success
STRIPE_CANCEL_URL=https://theisland.ie/booking-cancelled
BOOKING_APP_URL=https://theisland-email-bot.onrender.com
```

### 3. Enable Direct Debit Payment Methods (Optional but Recommended)

**IMPORTANT:** BACS and SEPA Direct Debit must be manually activated in your Stripe account to use them. The system will automatically fall back to card-only payments if they're not enabled.

To enable Direct Debit:

1. Go to https://dashboard.stripe.com/account/payments/settings
2. Scroll to **"Payment methods"** section
3. Enable:
   - ✅ **SEPA Direct Debit** (for European customers - saves €16.70 per €1,300 booking!)
   - ✅ **BACS Direct Debit** (for UK customers - same low fees)
4. Click **"Save"**

**Note:** Stripe may require additional business verification before approving these payment methods. The approval process typically takes 1-2 business days.

**What happens if not enabled:**
- System automatically falls back to card payments only
- No errors for customers
- You'll see a warning in logs: "BACS/SEPA not enabled, falling back to card-only"
- Enable them anytime - system will automatically start offering them

### 4. Set Up Stripe Webhook

1. Go to https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks
2. Click "Add endpoint"
3. Enter URL: `https://your-app-url.onrender.com/webhook/stripe`
4. Select events to listen to:
   - ✅ `checkout.session.completed` (required - handles card and Direct Debit checkouts)
   - ✅ `charge.succeeded` (required for Direct Debit - notifies when payment clears)
   - ✅ `charge.failed` (optional - logs failed payments)
5. Copy webhook signing secret to `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`

**Important:** You must add `charge.succeeded` event to receive notifications when Direct Debit payments (SEPA/BACS) clear (3-5 days after checkout).

### 5. Create Success/Cancel Pages

Create simple HTML pages at:
- `https://theisland.ie/booking-success` - Thank you page
- `https://theisland.ie/booking-cancelled` - Booking cancelled page

### 6. Test the Integration

#### Test Mode (Recommended First)

1. Use test API keys (start with `sk_test_`)
2. Use test card: `4242 4242 4242 4242`
3. Any future expiry date
4. Any 3-digit CVC

#### Live Mode

1. Switch to live API keys (start with `sk_live_`)
2. Update webhook URL to live endpoint
3. Real cards will be charged

## Database Changes

The webhook handler updates bookings with:

```python
{
  'status': 'Confirmed',
  'note': 'Payment confirmed via Stripe on 2025-12-10 14:30:00
           Amount paid: €1300.00
           Stripe Session ID: cs_test_...'
}
```

## Dashboard Integration

Bookings appear in the dashboard with:
- Status: "Confirmed" (green badge)
- Note includes payment details and Stripe session ID
- No manual confirmation needed

## Troubleshooting

### Webhook Not Working

1. Check webhook URL is correct
2. Verify `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` is set
3. Check Stripe dashboard for webhook delivery attempts
4. Review app logs for errors

### Payment Not Updating Booking

1. Check booking_id exists in database
2. Verify `update_booking_in_db()` is working
3. Check metadata is passed correctly to Stripe
4. Review webhook event payload in Stripe dashboard

### Email Not Sending

1. Verify SendGrid API key is valid
2. Check email address is verified in SendGrid
3. Review app logs for SendGrid errors
4. Check spam folder

## Security Considerations

1. **Webhook Signature Verification**: Always set `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` for production
2. **SSL Required**: Stripe requires HTTPS for webhooks
3. **API Key Protection**: Never commit API keys to git
4. **Test Mode First**: Always test with test keys before going live

## Payment Methods

The system supports three payment methods (BACS and SEPA require manual activation in Stripe dashboard):

### 1. Card Payments (Instant)
- **Processing**: Instant confirmation
- **Status**: Booking immediately confirmed
- **Email**: Instant confirmation email sent
- **Fees**: 1.4% + €0.25 per transaction
- **Requirements**: Any valid credit/debit card

### 2. SEPA Direct Debit (3-5 days) - RECOMMENDED for Europe ⚙️
- **Processing**: 3-5 business days to clear
- **Status**: "Pending SEPA" → "Confirmed" (after clearing)
- **Emails**:
  - Initial: "Payment Pending" email sent immediately
  - Final: "Payment Confirmed" email sent after clearing
- **Fees**: 0.8% (capped at €2.00)
- **Requirements**: European bank account (SEPA zone)
- **Coverage**: All 36 SEPA countries including Ireland
- **⚙️ Activation Required**: Must be enabled in Stripe dashboard (see setup instructions below)

### 3. BACS Direct Debit (3-5 days) - For UK customers ⚙️
- **Processing**: 3-5 business days to clear
- **Status**: "Pending BACS" → "Confirmed" (after clearing)
- **Emails**:
  - Initial: "Payment Pending" email sent immediately
  - Final: "Payment Confirmed" email sent after clearing
- **Fees**: 0.8% (capped at €2.00)
- **Requirements**: UK bank account required
- **⚙️ Activation Required**: Must be enabled in Stripe dashboard (see setup instructions below)

## Cost Breakdown

### Stripe Fees (Ireland)

#### Card Payments
- **Fee**: 1.4% + €0.25 per transaction
- **Example**: €1,300 booking = €18.45 + €0.25 = **€18.70 fee**
- **Net**: €1,281.30

#### Direct Debit - SEPA/BACS (NEW - Much Cheaper!)
- **Fee**: 0.8% (capped at €2.00)
- **Example**: €1,300 booking = 0.8% = **€2.00 fee** (capped)
- **Net**: €1,298.00
- **Savings**: **€16.70 per booking vs card!**
- **Note**: Same low fee for both SEPA (Europe) and BACS (UK)

### Fee Comparison Table

| Booking Amount | Card Fee | Direct Debit Fee (SEPA/BACS) | Savings |
|----------------|----------|------------------------------|---------|
| €100 | €1.65 | €0.80 | €0.85 |
| €200 | €3.05 | €1.60 | €1.45 |
| €500 | €7.25 | €2.00 | €5.25 |
| €1,000 | €14.25 | €2.00 | €12.25 |
| €1,300 | €18.70 | €2.00 | €16.70 |

## Support

### Stripe Dashboard
- View payments: https://dashboard.stripe.com/payments
- View webhooks: https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks
- View customers: https://dashboard.stripe.com/customers
- View logs: https://dashboard.stripe.com/logs

### Testing Resources
- Test cards: https://stripe.com/docs/testing
- Webhook testing: https://stripe.com/docs/webhooks/test

## Direct Debit Payment Details (SEPA & BACS)

### What are SEPA and BACS?

**SEPA (Single Euro Payments Area)** is a European payment integration initiative that makes bank transfers across the Eurozone as easy as domestic transfers. SEPA covers 36 countries including Ireland and all EU member states.

**BACS (Bankers' Automated Clearing Services)** is a UK-based electronic payment system for direct debits and credits, primarily used in the United Kingdom.

Both payment methods work the same way and have the same low fees (0.8% capped at €2.00).

### Direct Debit Payment Flow

1. **Customer Checkout** (Day 0)
   - Customer selects Direct Debit at checkout (SEPA or BACS)
   - Provides bank account details (IBAN for SEPA, sort code/account for BACS)
   - Receives "Payment Pending" email
   - Booking status: "Pending SEPA" or "Pending BACS"

2. **Processing** (Days 1-5)
   - Payment being processed by banking system
   - Typical clearing time: 3-5 business days
   - Tee time is reserved during this period

3. **Payment Clears** (Day 3-5)
   - Stripe webhook fires `charge.succeeded`
   - System updates booking to "Confirmed"
   - Customer receives "Payment Confirmed" email
   - Booking status: "Confirmed"

### Direct Debit Advantages
- ✅ **Much cheaper fees**: 0.8% vs 1.4% + €0.25 for cards
- ✅ **Capped at €2.00**: Large bookings save the most
- ✅ **Secure**: Protected by Direct Debit Guarantee
- ✅ **Lower barrier**: No need for credit card
- ✅ **Wide coverage**: SEPA covers 36 European countries

### Direct Debit Considerations
- ⚠️ **3-5 day clearing time**: Not instant like cards
- ⚠️ **Geographic requirements**:
  - SEPA: Requires European bank account (SEPA zone)
  - BACS: Requires UK bank account
- ⚠️ **Can be disputed**: Customers have up to 8 weeks to dispute
- ⚠️ **Requires webhook handling**: Must handle `charge.succeeded` event

### Dashboard Status Indicators

Your booking dashboard will now show different statuses:

- **Confirmed** (Card - Instant) - Green badge, payment received immediately
- **Pending SEPA** (SEPA - Day 0-5) - Orange badge, payment processing
- **Pending BACS** (BACS - Day 0-5) - Orange badge, payment processing
- **Confirmed** (Direct Debit - After clearing) - Green badge, payment cleared

### Email Templates

The system sends different emails based on payment method:

#### Card Payment (Instant)
- **Subject**: "✅ Payment Confirmed - Booking [ID]"
- **Sent**: Immediately after checkout
- **Content**: Full confirmation with booking details

#### Direct Debit Payment (Pending)
- **Subject**: "⏳ Booking Request Received - [ID]"
- **Sent**: Immediately after checkout
- **Content**: Payment pending notice, 3-5 day timeline
- **Note**: Email mentions SEPA or BACS based on payment method chosen

#### Direct Debit Payment (Cleared)
- **Subject**: "✅ Payment Confirmed (SEPA/BACS Cleared) - [ID]"
- **Sent**: When payment clears (3-5 days later)
- **Content**: Full confirmation with booking details
- **Note**: Email mentions SEPA or BACS based on payment method chosen

### Testing Direct Debit Payments

Stripe provides test account numbers for both methods:

**SEPA Test Account (Success)**
- IBAN: `DE89370400440532013000`
- Account Holder Name: Any name

**BACS Test Account (Success)**
- Sort Code: `108800`
- Account Number: `00012345`
- Account Holder Name: Any name

**BACS Test Account (Failure)**
- Sort Code: `108800`
- Account Number: `00012346`
- Account Holder Name: Any name

In test mode, both SEPA and BACS payments clear almost instantly instead of 3-5 days, allowing you to test the full flow quickly.

## Fallback Behavior

If Stripe is not configured (no `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`):
- System falls back to mailto links
- Old booking request flow still works
- No payment processing
- Manual confirmation required

This ensures the system works with or without Stripe.
